In this exercise, you are in a hypothetical scenario where you had built
an R-peak detector and you wanted to check the accuracy of the output of your algorithm.
When we study ECG signal processing,
we'll actually build this algorithm,
and the situation will no longer be hypothetical.
But for now, you need to find a dataset within EKG signal,
input to your algorithm,
paired with ground truth labels for where the R-peaks actually are,
so that you can validate your algorithm.
I've told you you could use the European ST-T database to do this.
As you're exploring the dataset,
you might wonder how accurate its R-wave of annotations are.
Ideally, they should mark the apex of the R-waves as shown here,
but you don't really know if the dataset has super accurate labels.
The way to figure this out is by plotting the reference labels on
top of the ECG signal to qualitatively figure out how accurate it is.
We will load our data from these npz files.
Npz is NumPy's serialization format for NumPy arrays.
Once you've loaded it, it behaves like a dictionary.
So you can get that ECG array from the ECG key and
then the reference R-peak annotations from the annotations key.
Then we want to plot the reference labels
on top of the ECG signal to see how accurate they are.
So we we'll do this similar to how we plotted the zero crossings on top of our signal.
First, we plot our ECG signal,
and then we plot the locations of the R-peak annotations and using a red dot of size 10.
When we do this,
we can see that our reference labels aren't exactly at the tips of the R-waves,
but they're pretty close.
So what this is telling you is that when you write your code
to validate your own algorithms outputs,
you want to look for a window around your outputs for the reference label,
because even if your algorithm was perfect and it
marked every single R-peak at the very tip.
If you only looked for the reference labels at these points, you wouldn't find any.
You have to include the window around it.
Visualization exercises like this are critically important
when you're starting new tasks or working with new datasets.
They can help you check your underlying assumptions and save you
tons of time when it turns out one of your assumptions about your data is incorrect.
You should get in the habit of plotting your data early and often.